All right here's example three called charge on the plates.
So we have a 10 mega ohm resistor that's connected in series to a 1 micro ferrite capacitor.
And in this case here there's also a 12 volt battery at time equals to zero the capacitors on charge.
They're asking you what fraction of the final charge is on the plate that time equals the 46 seconds
that the longtime And here are kind of five different choices.
There's nothing you can really guess.
You actually just have to solve the problem.
Again this is a circuit here the charging circuit.
So it looks something like this.
We have a battery.
We have a resistor.
And then we're going to have our capacitor over here.
All right.
So just a basic circuit that we've seen value of the capacitance over here is one micro one times ten
to the minus 6 Feraud the value of the resistance is ten and Mega is ten times ten to the six ohms.
And then the value of the battery here is a 12 volt battery.
OK.
Other important information that tell us is it's initially uncharged.
If it's initially an charge it means two things.
It means the initial charge q zero is zero.
And it also means that the voltage the initial voltage across the plates is zero.
Right.
Remember our basic capacitor equation is that the charge at any time equals to C multiplied by the voltage
at any time.
All right so what do we have going on here.
As soon as you kind of connect this system here you're going to start building charge on the plates.
If you plot the charge of the function of time remember what it looks like it looks like this exponential
function.
And this tends toward some saturation value some final value and the value over here simply see multiplied
by the voltage of the battery.
That's the final charge and for the charging case our equation now was.
Q As a function of time equals to my final charge which is C multiplied by V.
And now the time dependence looks like this minus T over R C.
All right.
And this function over here is represented by kind of this sketch over here as time gets very very big
this term here doesn't matter anymore and you're simply left with c times V multiplied by 1.
All right let's have a look at our equation now and see what they want they want which fraction of the
final charge.
All right what is the fraction of the final charge.
Well that's actually what they're really asking for here is q of T multiplied by the final charge the
final charge is c times V K.
This is the final charge.
Let me just make a note of that.
Q f the final charges C multiplied by the voltage of the battery.
So really all are really asked in this problem then is to evaluate this function exponential of minus
T over R C.
Substitute the values.
Now we have one minus exponential minus 46.
It's already in seconds and divided by 1 times 10 of the minus 6 multiplied by 10.
Ten of the six actually see this tend to the 6 and 10 to the minus 6 they're simply going to cancel
out.
So really you're going to be left with 10 over here.
So once you substitute this in to your calculator you should evaluate something that comes up to zero
point nine nine.
OK.
So really after 46 seconds if I look on this graph you're really kind of right here at the end right
if this is 46 seconds.
You're at ninety nine percent of the final charge that you're going to get if you let this go on forever.
All right you've got ninety nine percent of the way there.
So kind of a standard charging at the plates.
Hopefully you kind of understand this one.